# UMHUB

## A one-stop-shop for all university students' needs.

UMHUB will be used to guide students to choose the correct program and courses under their degree path. It will show a flowchart of the course order the students should enrol in and provide an overview of different subjects and their professors. Users can choose to log in to the system to access other functionalities, including rating courses and professors. The system will act as a tool to motivate students to prepare ahead for classes by using relevant discussion forums and textbook postings. 

This application is mainly targeted towards students currently enrolled at the University of Manitoba, though it can also be of use to prospective students and recent graduates. Students can easily see all the courses they can take in a certain program at one place and also look at what different courses include in their content. They are also able to connect with other university students. Past students can provide information on different courses and their experience and also provide ratings to the professors. Students can also buy and sell used books instead of scrambling here and there. Prospective students can get to know what kind of courses they can take at the university, helping them plan ahead. This is an awesome app.

The system will be a significant upgrade in the already existing platforms because it intends to answer the basic queries of the users, particularly the students, all in one place. The long queues in front of the advisors' office can get frustrating, so the system aims to provide the students with all the necessary course information beforehand and that too without any appointments! It will minimize the chances of students having to drop out of courses because of little information and hence, will speed up their degree completion time. The users would be able to save time by getting quick and easier access to the information needed. The general discussion forums and social group links would help develop social ties, especially amongst the freshmen. Additionally, the system is particularly designed to be easy to use, cost-effective and low on maintenance platform.


Success metric
The short term success metric is to attract all students in the UM  to use it, and in the long term we can have the options of scaling it up for use in other universities/colleges. Since much of the app relies on students contribution, we expect a successful app to have its user base contributing and updating the necessary links to their course section resources (Telegram/ WhatsApp/ Discord group chat), and 20-30 daily user posts/interactions across all forums (Buy & Sell, Questions and Answer Forum, Peer Tutor Matching). Ultimately, our goal is to still to help students by making information as accessible to them as possible
